Database Programming with PL/SQL
2-3: Recognizing Data Types

Vocabulary:

Store large blocks of single-byte or fixed width multi-byte NCHAR
data in the database. - nchar

Hold values, called locators, that specify the location of large
objects (such as graphic images) that are stored out of line. - large object locator

Hold a single value with no internal components. - scalar

Store large unstructured or structured binary objects. - BLOB(binary large object )

Contain internal elements that are either scalar (record) or
composite (record and table) - collection

Store large binary files outside of the database. - external lob

Hold values, called pointers, that point to a storage location. - pointer

A schema object with a name, attributes, and methods. - object type
 
Store large blocks of character data in the database - clob(chracter large object)

Try it/ Solve it:

1. In your own words, describe what a data type is and explain why it is important. 
   Un tip de data e important pentru ca specifica formatul unor variabile, constrangeri, limita de valori
   
2. Identify the three data type categories covered in this course.
	Scalar, Composite, Large Object(LOB)
	
3. Identify three data types covered in the Database Programming with SQL course.
	Varchar2, number, date
	
4. What data type can be used in PL/SQL, but can’t be used to define a table column?
	boolean
	
5. Which data type indicates a large data object that is stored outside of the database?
	BFILE
	
6. Identify the data type category (LOB, Scalar, or Composite) for each data type. Each category
may be used more than once.

CLOB -> LOB
VARCHAR2 -> Scalar
BLOB -> LOB
NUMBER -> Scalar
BFILE -> LOB
TIMESTAMP -> Scalar
NCLOB -> LOB
RECORD -> Composite
PLS_INTEGER -> Scalar
LONG -> Scalar
TABLE -> Composite
BOOLEAN -> Scalar

7.Enter the data type category and the data type for each value. The first one has been done for you
‘Switzerland’ Scalar VARCHAR2
Text of a resume  Lob CLOB
100.20 Scalar NUMBER
A picture Lob BLOB
1053 Scalar NUMBER
11-Jun-2016 Scalar Date
‘Computer science is the
science of the 21st century.’ Lob Clob

Index Last_name
1 'Newman'           Composite Table
2 'Raman'
3 'Han'

A movie  Lob BLOB
A sound byte lob BLOB
FALSE Scalar BOOLEAN

